## Filtering Data Using WHERE

The `WHERE` clause in SQL is used to filter rows in a table based on specific conditions. By using `WHERE`, you can return only those rows that meet certain criteria, which makes queries more efficient and reduces the amount of returned data. The `WHERE` clause is typically used with `SELECT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, and `INSERT` statements.

### Basic Syntax of WHERE

```sql
SELECT date, prcp
FROM data_new
WHERE location = 'RUZYNE';
```
## Using Expressions and Operators

In SQL, expressions and operators are used to manipulate and evaluate data. Operators can be arithmetic, relational, logical, and more. Some common operators include:

### Arithmetic Operators
- `+` (addition)
- `-` (subtraction)
- `*` (multiplication)
- `/` (division)
- `%` (modulo - remainder after division)

### Relational Operators
- `=` (equal to)
- `!=` or `<>` (not equal to)
- `>` (greater than)
- `<` (less than)
- `>=` (greater than or equal to)
- `<=` (less than or equal to)

## Efficient Record Search - Ignoring Case and Diacritics

In SQL, we can efficiently search for records regardless of case and diacritics using the following techniques:

- **Using the `LOWER()` or `UPPER()` Function**: This way, we can transform the text to lowercase or uppercase and then compare. For example:

 ```sql
  SELECT * FROM data_new WHERE LOWER(location) = 'ruzyne';
```
- **Ignoring Diacritics:** SQL Server supports collations that can ignore diacritics. \
  For example:

```sql
  SELECT * FROM data_new WHERE location COLLATE SQL_Latin1_General_CP1_CI_AI = 'Ruzyně';
```

  `SQL_Latin1_General_CP1_CI_AI` means case-insensitive (CI) and accent-insensitive (AI) collation, which means that the comparison will ignore both case and diacritics.

## Searching for NULL Values and Displaying Default Values Instead of NULL

NULL values in SQL Server represent unknown or missing values. To search for NULL values, you can use the `IS NULL` or `IS NOT NULL` operator.

### Example of Searching for NULL Values:

```sql
SELECT date, location FROM data_new WHERE prcp IS NULL;
```

### Example of Using ISNULL():

```sql
SELECT location, ISNULL(CAST(prcp AS NVARCHAR(50)), 'unknown') AS prcp
FROM data_new;
```
The `COALESCE()` function can handle multiple arguments and returns the first non-NULL value from the list.

### Example of using COALESCE():
```sql
SELECT location, COALESCE(tavg,tmin,tmax) AS temperature FROM data_new;
```
The `COALESCE()` function can handle multiple arguments and returns the first non-NULL value from the list.

